Add documentation for osram infrared (#45799)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/osram_infrared.markdown

---
title: OSRAM Infrared
description: Instructions on how to control OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights using an infrared emitter.
ha_category:
  - Button
  - Light
ha_release: 2026.7
ha_iot_class: Assumed State
ha_codeowners:
  - '@freeDom-'
ha_domain: osram_infrared
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - button
  - light
ha_integration_type: device
ha_quality_scale: bronze
related:
  - docs: /integrations/infrared/
    title: Infrared integration
---

> The **OSRAM Infrared** {% term integration %} lets you control compatible OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights using an infrared emitter previously configured in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: we usually add a link to the related product or manufacturer page in the introduction. Would this apply for OSRAM? 

https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L25

Author: I see the bulb in a lot of local markets or online shops. There are also quite some variations of the bulb that are using the same remote and would be supported. But I was unable to find a product page on the official osram or ledvance page... I also do not have a list of supported devices (which might something that could be added in the future with the help of the community). So I'd not know what to add here right now.

> You can optionally select an infrared receiver during setup. When the receiver captures a supported command from the physical remote, the integration updates the assumed state of the light entity. For example, pressing the off button on the physical remote updates the light entity to `off` in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can optionally select an infrared receiver during setup. When the receiver captures a supported command from the physical remote, the integration updates the light entity to reflect the remote's command. For example, pressing the off button on the physical remote updates the light entity to `off` in Home Assistant.
```
I'm not sure people know what "assumed state" means. I made a suggestion to work around it, but please feel free to rephrase.

> Because infrared communication does not confirm whether the light received a transmitted command, the integration uses assumed state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because infrared is a one-way signal, Home Assistant cannot confirm whether the light received a command. The state shown in Home Assistant reflects the last sent value, not a confirmed reading from the light.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Infrared emitter:
  description: The infrared emitter entity used to send commands to the OSRAM or LEDVANCE light. This must be an entity provided by a hardware integration, such as ESPHome, that has already been set up with an infrared emitter.
Infrared receiver:
  description: The optional infrared receiver entity used to detect supported commands sent by the physical remote. This must be an entity provided by a hardware integration, such as ESPHome, that has already been set up with an infrared receiver.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Light

The integration creates a light entity with the following functionality:

- Turn the light on and off.
- Set an assumed brightness level by sending relative brightness-up or brightness-down commands.
- Select white mode or a color from the color wheel. The requested color is mapped to the closest supported preset of the physical remote.
- Select the **Flash**, **Strobe**, or **Smooth** effect.

### Button

> The integration creates a **Mode** button. Pressing this button sends the mode command from the physical remote.

Reviewer: what does the mode button do?

> The integration creates a **Mode** button. Pressing this button sends the mode command from the physical remote.

Author: ```suggestion
The integration creates a **Mode** button. Pressing this button sends the mode command from the physical remote, which switches to the next color of a predefined sequence.
```

## Data updates

> The integration does not {% term polling poll %} the light. After sending a command, it updates the assumed state of the light entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration does not {% term polling poll %} the light. After sending a command, it updates the light entity to reflect the expected result.
```

- Brightness control is relative. The integration tracks an assumed brightness level based on commands sent or received, but it cannot read the actual brightness from the light.
- The color wheel maps colors to the discrete presets available on the physical remote. The selected color can therefore differ slightly from the requested color.
- Commands sent with the physical remote update the Home Assistant state only when an infrared receiver is configured and successfully captures the signal.

## Troubleshooting

### The integration cannot be set up

Make sure that an infrared emitter entity is already available in Home Assistant. The emitter is required during setup.

### The light does not react to commands

Make sure that the infrared LED is positioned within range and pointed toward the light. If the emitter is unavailable, verify the hardware integration that provides the infrared entity.

### Commands from the physical remote do not update the light state

Make sure that you selected an infrared receiver during setup and that the receiver is positioned so that it can capture signals from the physical remote.

## Removing the integration

> This integration follows standard integration removal. {% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration follows standard integration removal. 

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}
```
This include needs to be on a new line, otherwise the title isn't rendered correctly:

<img width="1138" height="389" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/187f1193-e495-4cc1-97ff-78937d05e586" />

---
title: OSRAM Infrared
description: Instructions on how to control OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights using an infrared emitter.
ha_category:

>   - Button

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - Light
ha_release: 2026.7
ha_iot_class: Assumed State
ha_codeowners:
  - '@freeDom-'
ha_domain: osram_infrared
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:

>   - button

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - light
ha_integration_type: device

> ha_quality_scale: bronze

Author: ```suggestion
ha_quality_scale: silver
```

related:
  - docs: /integrations/infrared/
    title: Infrared integration
---

The **OSRAM Infrared** {% term integration %} lets you control compatible OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights using an infrared emitter previously configured in Home Assistant.

You can optionally select an infrared receiver during setup. When the receiver captures a supported command from the physical remote, the integration updates the light entity to reflect the remote's command. For example, pressing the off button on the physical remote updates the light entity to `off` in Home Assistant.

Because infrared is a one-way signal, Home Assistant cannot confirm whether the light received a command. The state shown in Home Assistant reflects the last sent value, not a confirmed reading from the light.

## Supported devices

> The integration supports OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights that use the supported infrared remote command set. The supported remote includes controls for power, brightness, white mode, preset colors, effects, and mode selection.

Author: ```suggestion
The integration supports OSRAM and LEDVANCE RGB lights that use the supported infrared remote command set. The supported remote has 24 buttons and includes controls for power, brightness, preset colors and effects and a mode button.
```

{% configuration_basic %}
Infrared emitter:
  description: The infrared emitter entity used to send commands to the OSRAM or LEDVANCE light. This must be an entity provided by a hardware integration, such as ESPHome, that has already been set up with an infrared emitter.
Infrared receiver:
  description: The optional infrared receiver entity used to detect supported commands sent by the physical remote. This must be an entity provided by a hardware integration, such as ESPHome, that has already been set up with an infrared receiver.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Light

The integration creates a light entity with the following functionality:

- Turn the light on and off.
- Set an assumed brightness level by sending relative brightness-up or brightness-down commands.
- Select white mode or a color from the color wheel. The requested color is mapped to the closest supported preset of the physical remote.
- Select the **Flash**, **Strobe**, or **Smooth** effect.

### Button

The integration creates a **Mode** button. Pressing this button sends the mode command from the physical remote, which switches to the next color of a predefined sequence.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
